# NAME

App::sslmaker - Be your own SSL certificate authority

# VERSION

0.13

# DESCRIPTION

[App::sslmaker](https://metacpan.org/pod/App::sslmaker) is a module that provide methods for acting as your own
[CA](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority) (certificate authority).
It can creating SSL keys, certificates and signing requests. The methods
should have good defaults and "just work", so you don't have to worry about
the details. "Just work" depends on safe defaults, which will change when
new and more secure standards come along.

The openssl commands are based on the instructions from
[https://jamielinux.com/blog/category/CA/](https://jamielinux.com/blog/category/CA/).

This module is used by the `sslmaker` command line application, but can also
act as a standalone toolkit.

From [https://jamielinux.com/articles/2013/08/act-as-your-own-certificate-authority/](https://jamielinux.com/articles/2013/08/act-as-your-own-certificate-authority/):

    Most websites, such as shopping, banking or email websites, need to let their
    customers know that the connection is secure. Thus, they need to pay a
    well-known and internationally trusted CA (eg, VeriSign) to issue an SSL
    certificate. However, this isn't always necessary. For example, if you're
    setting up a virtual private network (VPN) or an intranet website, it might
    make more sense to issue your own certificates.

    Being a CA means dealing with cryptographic pairs of private keys and public
    certificates. Ideally the cryptographic pairs should be generated in a secure
    environment, which means a personal laptop or computer that is disconnected
    from the Internet. It is not recommended to generate any certificates
    directly on your server.

# DISCLAIMER

This module is based on tips and tricks from online resources, and has been
reviewed by security experts. Even so, the ["AUTHOR"](#author) of this application or
any parts involved cannot be held responsible for the security of your
server, application or other parts that use the files generated by this
library.

# COMMAND LINE USAGE

    $ sslmaker [options] {action} {arg1,...}

    # Generate root CA key and certificate
    $ sslmaker --home /path/to/pki/CA root

    # Generate intermediate CA key and certificate
    $ sslmaker --root-home /path/to/pki/CA --home /path/to/pki/intermediate intermediate

    # Generate client or server key and certificate signing request
    $ sslmaker --home /path/to/pki/intermediate generate <commonName>
    $ sslmaker --home /path/to/pki/intermediate generate www.example.com
    $ sslmaker --home /path/to/pki/intermediate nginx www.example.com

    # Sign a certificate signing request
    $ sslmaker --home /path/to/pki/intermediate sign www.example.com.csr.pem [outfile]

# ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

- SSLMAKER\_BITS

    Default bits for a generated certificate. Default is 4096.

- SSLMAKER\_DAYS

    Default days before expiring a generated certificate. Default is 365.

- SSLMAKER\_DEBUG

    Setting this to "0" will output less debug information from `sslmaker`.

- SSLMAKER\_HOME

    Used by the `sslmaker` script as default home directory. Default directory
    structure is:

        # optional
        $SSLMAKER_HOME/private/passphrase

        # generated by "sslmaker root"
        $SSLMAKER_HOME/CA/ca.cert.pem
        $SSLMAKER_HOME/CA/ca.key.pem

        # generated by "sslmaker intermediate"
        $SSLMAKER_HOME/intermediate/ca.cert.pem
        $SSLMAKER_HOME/intermediate/ca.key.pem

        # generated by "sslmaker generate example.com"
        $SSLMAKER_HOME/certs/example.com.cert.pem
        $SSLMAKER_HOME/private/example.com.key.pem

- SSLMAKER\_OPENSSL

    Default to "openssl". Can be set to a custom path if "openssl" is not in
    `PATH`.

- SSLMAKER\_SUBJECT

    Used by the `sslmaker` script as default home directory.

# SYNOPSIS

    my $sslmaker = App::sslmaker->new(subject => '/C=US/ST=Gotham/L=Gotham/O=Wayne Enterprises/OU=Batcave/CN=batman');
    my $key = $sslmaker->make_key;
    my $csr = $sslmaker->make_csr({ key => $key->path });

    # the content of the csr
    print $csr->slurp;

    # move to a non-temp location
    $csr->move("/path/to/certs/output.csr.pem");
    $key->move("/path/to/certs/output.csr.pem");

All methods will throw an exception on error, unless otherwise noted.

## RESOURCES

- [https://jamielinux.com/blog/category/CA](https://jamielinux.com/blog/category/CA)
- [https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/openssl-essentials-working-with-ssl-certificates-private-keys-and-csrs](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/openssl-essentials-working-with-ssl-certificates-private-keys-and-csrs)
- [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate\_authority](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority)

# METHODS

## make\_cert

    $asset = $self->make_cert({
                key        => "/path/to/private/input.key.pem",
                passphrase => "/path/to/passphrase.txt",
                days       => $number_of_days, # default: 365
                subject    => '/C=NO/ST=Oslo', # optional
              });

This method will generate a SSL certificate using a `key` generated by
["make\_key"](#make_key). `passphrase` should match the argument given to ["make\_key"](#make_key).
An optional `subject` can be provided. The subject string will be merged with the
["subject"](#subject) attribute. `days` can be used to set how many days the certificate
should be valid.

The returned `$asset` is a [Path::Tiny](https://metacpan.org/pod/Path::Tiny) object which holds the generated certificate
file. It is possible to specify the location of this object by passing on `cert` to
this method.

## make\_crl

    $asset = $self->make_crl({
                key        => "/path/to/private/input.key.pem",
                cert       => "/path/to/cefrt/input.cert.pem",
                passphrase => "/path/to/passphrase.txt", # optional
              });

This method will generate a certificate revocation list (CRL) using a `key` generated
by ["make\_key"](#make_key). `passphrase` should match the argument given to ["make\_key"](#make_key).

The returned `$asset` is a [Path::Tiny](https://metacpan.org/pod/Path::Tiny) object which holds the generated certificate
file. It is possible to specify the location of this object by passing on `crl` to
this method.

You can inspect the generated asset using the command
`openssl crl -in $crl_asset -text`.

See also ["revoke\_cert"](#revoke_cert).

## make\_csr

    $asset = $self->make_csr({
                key        => "/path/to/private/input.key.pem",
                passphrase => "/path/to/passphrase.txt",
                subject    => '/C=NO/ST=Oslo',
                days       => $number_of_days, # default: 365
              });

This method will generate a SSL certificate signing request using a `key`
generated by ["make\_key"](#make_key). `passphrase` is only required if the `key` was
generated with a `passphrase`.  An optional `subject` can be provided.
The subject string will be merged with the ["subject"](#subject) attribute.

The returned `$asset` is a [Path::Tiny](https://metacpan.org/pod/Path::Tiny) object which holds the generated
signing request file. It is possible to specify the location of this object
by passing on `csr` to this method.

## make\_directories

    $self->make_directories({
      home      => "/path/to/pki",
      templates => 1, # default: false
    });

Used to generate a suitable file structure, which reflect what `openssl.cnf`
expects. Set `$emplates` to a true value to generate [files](#render_to_file).

    $home/          # need to be writable by current user
    $home/certs/
    $home/crl/
    $home/newcerts/
    $home/private/  # will have mode 700
    # optional templates
    $home/index.txt
    $home/serial

## make\_key

    $asset = $self->make_key({
                passphrase => "/path/to/passphrase.txt", # optional
                bits       => 8192, # default: 4096
              });

This method will generate a SSL key.

The key will be protected with `passphrase` if given as input. In addition
if `passphrase` does not exist, it will be created with a random passphrase.

The returned `$asset` is a [Path::Tiny](https://metacpan.org/pod/Path::Tiny) object which holds the generated key.
It is possible to specify the location of this object by passing on `key` to
this method.

From [https://jamielinux.com/articles/2013/08/act-as-your-own-certificate-authority/](https://jamielinux.com/articles/2013/08/act-as-your-own-certificate-authority/):

    The very first cryptographic pair we generate includes what is known as a
    root certificate. The root key (ca.key.pem) generated in this step should be
    kept extremely secure, otherwise an attacker can issue valid certificates for
    themselves. We'll therefore protect it with AES 256-bit encryption and a
    strong password just in case it falls into the wrong hands.

## new

    $self = App::sslmaker->new(%args);
    $self = App::sslmaker->new(\%args);

Object constructor.

## openssl

    $self->openssl(@args);
    $self->openssl(@args, sub { ... });
    App::sslmaker::openssl(@args);
    App::sslmaker::openssl(@args, sub { ... });

Used to run the application `openssl`. The callback defined at the end is
optional, but will be called with the complete output from the openssl
command. `$?` is also available for inspection.

The `openssl` application must exist in path or defined by setting the
`SSLMAKER_OPENSSL` environment variable before loading this module.

## render\_to\_file

    $asset = $self->render_to_file($template, \%stash);
    $asset = $self->render_to_file($template, $out_file, \%args);

This method can render a `$template` to either a temp file or `$out_file`.
The `$template` will have access to `%stash` and `$self`.

See ["TEMPLATES"](#templates) for list of valid templates.

## revoke\_cert

    $self->with_config(
      revoke_cert => {
        key    => "/path/to/private/ca.key.pem",
        cert   => "/path/to/certs/ca.cert.pem",
        crl    => "/path/to/crl.pem",
        revoke => "/path/to/newcerts/1000.pem",
      },
    );

This method can revoke a certificate. It need to be run either with
`OPENSSL_CONF` or inside ["with\_config"](#with_config).

## sign\_csr

    $asset = $self->sign_csr({
                csr        => "/path/to/certs/input.csr.pem",
                ca_key     => "/path/to/private/ca.key.pem",
                ca_cert    => "/path/to/certs/ca.cert.pem",
                passphrase => "/path/to/passphrase.txt",
                extensions => "v3_ca", # default: usr_cert
              });

This method will sign a `csr` file generated by ["make\_csr"](#make_csr). `ca_key` and
`passphrase` is the same values as you would provide ["make\_key"](#make_key) and
`ca_cert` is the output from ["make\_cert"](#make_cert).

The returned `$asset` is a [Path::Tiny](https://metacpan.org/pod/Path::Tiny) object which holds the generated
certificate. It is possible to specify the location of this object by
passing on `cert` to this method.

## subject

    $self = $self->subject(@subjects);
    $self = $self->subject("/C=NO/ST=Oslo/L=Oslo/O=Example/OU=Prime/emailAddress=admin@example.com", ...);
    $str = $self->subject;

Holds the default subject field for the certificate. Can be set by passing in a
list of subject strings, hashes or paths to certificate files. The list will
get merged, soo the last one overrides the one before.

## with\_config

    $any = $self->with_config($method => \%args);

Used to call a [method](#methods) with a temp ["openssl.cnf"](#openssl-cnf)
file. The `%stash` in the template will be constructed from the `%args`,
which is also passed on to the next `$method`. Example:

    $asset = $self->with_config(make_key => {
                home       => "/path/to/pki",
                passphrase => "/path/to/pki/private/passphrase.txt",
                bits       => 8192,
             });

The config file will be removed when `$self` go out of scope.

An alternative to this method is to set the `OPENSSL_CONF` environment
variable before calling `$method`:

    local $ENV{OPENSSL_CONF} = "/path/to/openssl.cnf";
    $asset = $self->make_key({...});

# TEMPLATES

["render\_to\_file"](#render_to_file) can render these templates, which is bundled with this module:

- crlnumber

    Creates a file which stores the SSL CRL number. If `n` is present in
    `%stash`, it will be used as the start number, which defaults to 1000.

- index.txt

    This is currently just an empty file.

- nginx.config

    Used to render an example nginx config. `%stash` should contain `cert`,
    `client_certificate`, `crl`, `key`, `server_name` and `verify_client`.

- openssl.cnf

    Creates a config file for openssl. TODO: Descrive stash values.

- serial

    Creates a file which stores the SSL serial number. If `n` is present in
    `%stash`, it will be used as the start number, which defaults to 1000.

# COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

## Code

Copyright (C) Jan Henning Thorsen

The code is free software, you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the Artistic License version 2.0.

## Documentation

Documentation is licensed under the terms of Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported license.

The documentation is put together by Jan Henning Thorsen, with citations from
Jamie Nguyen's website [https://jamielinux.com/](https://jamielinux.com/).

# AUTHOR

Jan Henning Thorsen - `jhthorsen@cpan.org`
